Ship Build: “TheTenserCore”
—

Name: "TheTenserCore"
Ship: Spike, Rank 17, Federation, 'Cov Ops' Class
By: Spirin1224 (TheTenserC0re)


—< General Overview >—
"TheTenserCore" is made, not for a single target, but represents a truly veritable, adaptable/adaptive Commando.

There is no real way to classify the ship, only to base such a deacription off of what it is made to do (its use 'for') and its advantages on the field.

--the point--
TenserCore is made to be:
1. self-sufficient
2. Sustain moderately high firepower over a sustained, prolonged period of time
3. Push-power (do very high damage over medium time, reliable), or rather, focus power on a specific target periodically (like agaisnt a guard or high lvl player)
4. Work good alone, work good with a team.
—/the point—

Features-gameplay:
—< Build Features >—
Speed-
This build focuses on mid-range combat, too fast and ypu cant maintain most efficient distance, too slow, and migt as well be in a fighter.

Energy-
I won't mince words, right now the build runs very very tight (not much room to help energy), so you will run into energy problems, and kinda ehdn you need it the most.
(right now, you have to dis-engage afterbruner after a tun to let energy fill-back-up for modules)

Strength/Shield_Hull-
Boasting 6k shield and 6k hull, this ship can take a true beating.
And with its modules it allows it to still have high resistances.
Boasts very good regeneration, a basic flawless build for TheTenserCore build/loadout.

Advantages-(misc.)
Low(er)/buffed module reload/cool-downs
Slowing under 50% speed increases shield regeneration (Crew Implant)
/^ perfect because hull regenerates also.
—< /Build Features >—


—< Build Advantages >—
W/ optimization:

lvl 1 'Doppler Laser' 2856
Buffs:

Switch-back (flip-flop):  --Damge/Range-- 
Curved Reflector -- Horizon Module(LvL2), Crew 2:B "...maximum and optimal weapon range by 20%"
Total Range (-267m) so far, but this means w/ the ^^^ I will gain 25% damage and keep same range.
with a single flip I can go for much much longer range (since I already run 'Shared Cooler') [[which is another flip-flop]]
also, with another upgrade to Horizon I will regain, and thus, pure gain. no loss.

Switch-back (flip-flop(?)):  --Overheating_Weapon--
Instead of 'High-Frequency Oscillator' (which would negate previous flip-flop), I ^^, and use Shared Cooler instead.
At LvL1 'Shared Cooler' is more effective than 'HFO' ammo to boot! (28.9% vs 25.9%), at BASE LEVEL

Switch-Cover (flip-flop): —shield—
Instead of any adaptive shield, opted for higher shield volume (since per hit would be consistently better than a tad more shield resistance)
Instead, added crew modifier for shield resistance, and used the other crew implant to improve shield regeneration.
Much more efficient, and works tighter with play-style.

==Numbers/Math/Advantages (word for thing in your favor)

Pirate vs Non Pirate "Orion Targeting Complex"
(2660+70%)*10 = 45220
(2660+108%)*5 = 27664
=48.24%% more effective (than standard "Orion Targeting Complex")

Total Damage of Special Module 'Plasma Shackles' (at max #3)
(346+75%)*12 = 7266 total damage (assured)
—end build description—


—< Active Modules >—
Pirate Orion Targeting Complex
“Boosts damage by 77% for 10 seconds”
Energy Converter
Increases shield resistance to damage, redirects all damage to targeted beam.
Energy Trap Mine
Takes ## energy from all enemies in range, and then explodes; dealing damage by x# to all enemies in range with gathered energy.
?? (Forgot) Shield Booster
Restores sheild
—< /Active Modules >—


—< Module Overview/Operations/Tactics >—
Pirate Orion targeting Complex
-
Better because it boasts more total dps that the regular OTC, with similar cooldown.
As such, is more adaptable, efficient, and works better with the build
“Deal moderate to high-levels of damage over a sustained/prolonged period of time”


—Energy Converter
-
The Defense:
A perfect module for this build, both for its internal stat network and balance, and also for its play-style, offensive/defensive uses
Takes advantage of the builds high energy levels, and high shield count,
Making the buffed shield volume have its extra shield resistance.
(
Which is more effective than lower shield volume (by 50%+) and adding extra layer of resist,
When having this nodule anyways, will simply be perhaps overkill>efficiency for its purpose,
And truthfully, it is only so much shield.
So having more shield makes ALL that shield a comparable resistance to the previous build (albeit in a ‘push-power’ or periodic term rather than ‘always’)
Which can theoretically/logically mean a very decent amount of total sheild strength, which, inline with its stats and structure, much higher/nicer efficiency.
)
Having 1.7x as much shield with comparable resistances is much better than simply 1x with base sheild.

This also allows for it to be useful/adaptible, making the usage more efficient.
Not compromising efficiency to run adaptive shields all the time when it may only be useful 40% of the time, or 80%, just not 100%
Using Energy Converter as the same function of Adaptive Sheilds, (which is badically enhanced sheild reistance) increases efficiency.
Considering the user can choose when to have the higher resistance, instead of it all the time.
(90% resist all the time, vs. 120% resist the times when you need it/want it)
+much higher sheild volume

And this, of course, is just the internal-stat (or defensive) portion of the ship relating to its mathemtical structure of the shields.

-

The Offense:
Need I say anything?
Time and time and time again, Energy Converter has been the pro’s est friend.
Basically period.

Allowing such a small craft to double or triple its (already most likely activated very very high) damage, while charging/rushing a enemy who has unleashed its full arsenal, and to come out alive...
Is incredible.
Incredibly useful.
Incredibly powerful.
Veritable, tenacit.
Useful.
And efficient.

It will make fighters, frigates, and destroyers alike, to blink as this small, already hard to hit craft, come in, fly around your cross-hairs, take a stupendous amount of damage,
And somehow, make 2 kills...
Shields still up.

From already the basic description.
I can go in, deal enormous damage(70% POTC), crowd-control by Energy Burning Mine, followed by Nuke, followed by my already buffed weapons (and if cool-down has already reset) buffed extra 70% damage (weapons).

And come out alive. Get to allies.
20 second cool-down for modules and for hull/shields.
And go in-and do it again!

Energy Converter folks.
—/


—Energy Trap Mine
-

Once again.
Do I need to say anything?
..
The answer is most likely yes,
While a good number of players understand its incredibly high damage potential and effectiveness, most don’t, and if they do.
A simple breakdown for appreciation would still be appropriate.

-
This module boasts many features of usefulness/effectiveness

It works better the more people are affected, which is the mark of a true crowd-control weapon.
Has lower cool-down,
And has the potential for huge damage.

Useful for large groups, and destroyers.
Sucking energy, which could stop enemy after-burners, and stop module use from enemy Guard Frigates, as well as conventionally pausing players from having enough energy to activate modules.

Then exploding, deal a tremendous amount of damage,
And some other things:

—
Deals high damage
AOE
So useful when dealing with fast enemies, and interceptors.
Really, really can tbh. You usually always need that ‘extra-something’ to shut-them-down. This, is a useful example of high AOE w/ moderate burst damage to accomplish that.
Shakes aircraft
And this could be useful when dealing with ships targeting you, and to momentarily throw off-course a enemy craft.
Idk when it might be effective enough to actually be,
Well,
Effective.
But it is something to keep in mind, and it isnt really nothing either.
Distracting
Kinda useful as a distraction...
*shrug
-/

Damage:
The damage it deals is decent.
Nothing really eye-opening unless you get a lot of players.
(Of course, its based off each situation)
But typically, enemies over 4 give some serious punch to it.
3-5, good punch,
6-7, ‘oof’
Over 8 you get INFINITE POWER!!
And of course, it scales.
(A player made a video of destroying around 15+ enemy AI craft, strong, with one single use. Clearing the map.)

Misc:
Very very useful in PVE.
Stay in one spot, activate nuke one place, run to other spawn place, activate EBM,
Smile as you get 20-30 destroys all to yourself.

Low reload time, and with crew implant, gets lower the more effective it is. (?)
—/


—Shield Booster
—
Not much here right?
In a way, yes.
In another, not so simple.

It does what it is supposed to, give shield,
But go back to playstyle.

This should be used mainly in offensive engagements.
Remember?
“Everyone hitting him, but he makes 3 kills, and gets out..
Shields still up.”

This pairs perfectly with BOTH the Energy Converter and the high shield volume with this build, allowing you to flow-tank a high amount of damage during engagements. (Periodically!)

And because of it’s (also) low reload timer, i usually am able to use it directly after the engagement, quickly getting my shields back up, already en-route to another area (unless i decide to go a bit slower and use that under 50% speed=25% shield regen buff and let hull repair.)

And that about covers that
—/
—< /Module Overview/Operations/Tactics >—

—< Play-style\active playing/operations >—
In Basic/Classic Scenarios:
Stick near team and destory nearby targets, preferabbly  fighters, frigates, and interceptors. Prioritze high-armored or dangerous foes to use 'push-power', ("Pirate Orion Targeting Complex").

Strikes in enemy territory (depending on build), and driving a splinter through enemy team.

Beacon ownership (until team arrives with reinforcements or until threat is deterred)

Does constant high damage and is effective vs a large variety of targets.

Crowd Control-
"Energy Burning Mine", offers a high and reliable level of crowd control, as does other Cov Ops nodules, allowing it to stay effective in more situations, and allow it to be a team player.
And of course, it’s nukes.

Single Target-
Boasting superbly boosted weapons, and a configuration designed to run full-throttle, standard.
Using a simple 'push-power' system, (Pirate Orion Targeting Complex), you can do 70% more damage for 10 seconds, useful for taking down a tough enemy/target, and useful to spread out among several targets, while having a short cooldown.


—< Flight/Orbit Patterns/Maneuvers >—
Because of the enhanced maneuverability of the Spike, acheiving a working flight pattern that will keep both weapons on target, without missing, crashing into target, while maintaining afterburners, and holding 25% weapon boost is quite difficult to maintain over prolonged times and in changing circumstances, as well as all the time.

As such,
I have found out the next-level pro flying maneuvers.
Built specifically for Spike,
Designed to keep perfect and variable distance, gun control and accuracy, and evasiveness.

< Cone Arc >
How:
Aim at target
Strafe in a corner direction.
So, ‘s’ and ‘ctrl’
‘d’ and ‘shift’

While holding afterburner.

—
You can now reduce speed to zero, and check your buffs.
And guess what?
You still have your 25%
Reduce speed to zero,
Go backwards!

Guess what?
Yep.
25% damage boost

Uses a incredibly interesting trick (secret)
Moving in 2 directions at same-time, (strafe in two directions at same time (a+CTRL)) actually counts toward afterburner damage buff!
This means, you can actually use w and s to control the distance between you and the target without breaking full damage buff/bonus
Rolling simply allows me to stay in a spot and control the overall orbit.



Misc:
Spiral (Corner)
Put object in either top corner of screen, and orbit from there, holding CTRL (down key) and the corresponding strafe key, opposite of the corner direction (A or D)

you will be orbiting the entire object.

This is effective because it accomplishes the main goals of orbiting, while using the added strafe speed selected (in crew modifiers)

You use both Strafe AND Ctrl, to acheive higher orbit diameter, strafing in 2x directions, rolling to 'miss' the target (useful for long targets such as cargo ships), allowing you to direct the strafe corner direction to pass or 'miss' the long side of the ship while still training weapons on it
—< \Flight/Orbit Patterns/Maneuvers >—



—< Engagement Tactics >—
<vs large slow-moving/non-moving objects>
Approach w/ Afterburner engaged, at max speed (for the 25% weapons buff)
Activate [Pirate 'Orion' Targeting Complex 17] (77% dmg buff)

Deal damage, orbiting around large object

—< Typical Run >—
In basic situation:

Hit lone(er) targets
Support/lead team
Clean-up/beacon clearing(bombing runs)

Hit loner targets
On warp-in, look for loner targets.
Preferably frigates, some fighter class, and/or weak interceptors (in order)

Usually go a route that a team has cover with, fly through cover,
But don’t be too stealthy. It isn’t made to be absolutely silent, no be stupidly loud.
Be stealthy, but get there. 

And guess what?
Approach usually head-on,
Activated weapons and the like,
(Saving energy convert and shield booster as a pair (shield booster activated first))

And let him, (since they mostly dont know better)
Start unloading on me.

Then use Sheild Booster and Energy Converter
(Energy booster should already perhaps be activated since tanking some damage, followed (directly) by Energy Converter)

And, of course, all this happens within seconds.
Sometimes i truthfully don’t need to use energy converter (and then/perhaps) shield booster.
As perhaps there is another target in range with higher health (since i have prioritized the lower health target to take out the first faster than the latter)
Thus saving the shield booster and energy converter for the extra damage and tanking for the second target.

Or if I just want it free in-case someone is nearby, another target, or for any other reason.


Support/Lead team
Warp-in, get close to front of team.
Stay near cover as you quickly survey the battlefield.
Pick a target, or a area that your allies are covering or engaging with the opposing team.
Pick target, setup what you want to do.

You can do the same split w/ Orion and Converter to attack mutliple targets at the same time.

Engage.
Get right in, float around 1000m around enemies, using weapons on a target and using your crowd control modules to deal damage.

If there is a high priority target,
High level player
Power player/ship (causing a lot of damage)
Weak ship

Use strafing and other maneuvers to dodge fire (if possible)
If you have picked target, start cycling your push-power modules.

Deal incredible damage, use Converter to maximize incoming damage and strengthen yourself.

Just go. Lol, its made for this.
Use modules smartly, destroy target, focus on it specifically,
Orbit, then focus on next target,
Continue to use EBM as it reloads, getting in a position to affect as many opponents as possible (as is in the area of engagement)

When ship goes low on health, make it back to ally team or safe place to regen and look for next targets (perhaps using loner operation)

Or regen as you move to next location

Repeat!

Bombing Runs
Simple, nuke beacons to A. Stop captures, and B. Prevent captures.
Anti-intie stuff, etc...
